Continue on in our series called I Love to Tell the Story.
How many of you have ever wished for a fresh start?
You just kind of wish that things had started over.
You wish you could just, like on a video game, you could hit the reset button and things would refresh or start over.
Or maybe you've said, if I could just go back and redo that moment,
I can tell you there are many nights when I lay my head down and the enemy or whoever wants to bring back all those dumb little things that I said when I was a kid, when you didn't really understand or whatever or you misunderstood a situation and you interjected and it was like, oh, open mouth, insert foot.
Okay, we've all had those moments.
Maybe we've had moments where we've said, I wish I just had one more chance.
Wish I had one more moment, one more opportunity.
Truth is, we've all been there.
We've all had those moments in our life.
But here's the amazing thing.
We serve a God who specializes in fresh starts and new beginnings.
See, when God wrote the story of creation, so let me say this first.
Our message, if you're a note taker today, is titled, A New Beginning.
This is January, is a story of new beginnings, and our message today is simply called, A New Beginning.
See, when God wrote the story of creation, He opened it with what words?
In the beginning.
See, God didn't stop after creating in Genesis chapter one.
The Bible again is one long story of how he keeps stepping into people's lives and giving them fresh starts.
New beginnings, if you will.
Pastor Jonathan shared about Abraham and his call to leave everything behind.
And there's the story of Moses leading the Israelites out of slavery.
We jump over to the New Testament and there's Paul's dramatic transformation on the road to Damascus.
Whatever it is, whether it is in Scripture or in our lives today, God loves creating new chapters in the lives of His people.
So this morning, we're gonna do something that I have been telling you about for quite a while.
We are going to share the story of Bereans, of people within the church.
And so today we're gonna hear the story of a new beginning
from one of our church members.
Now, I wanna give you just a little preface before we jump in.
What you're gonna see today, when I asked you way back when, I said, who would be willing to share their story?
We still have lots of empty holes in our calendar for this year.
People have not signed up.
What you're gonna see today is what we're asking.
You don't have to come up and tell a story narrated by you.
We're gonna do it kind of talk show style.
I've got just a few questions that I've already predetermined that I'm gonna ask you.
I'm gonna give them to you ahead of time so you can go, oh, this is what you wanna ask.
And we're gonna hear your story as it applies to the theme of the month.
So this is not something where you have to give up and do public speaking and all of those things.
It's simply a conversation between you and I
and the congregation telling a little bit of your story throughout the year.
So I hope that takes some of the intimidation off of it and that you'll go see Sister Letitia at the Welcome Center and sign up in whatever months we have left so that we can hear your story.
Let's continue on after that short break.
So before we get into this story part, I wanna ask you something.
What is the next chapter God wants to write in your life?
Have you thought about that?
We're all in a journey.
We're all in this book called life and God wants to write something new.
But see, there's good news with that.
No matter where you've been, no matter what you've done, no matter how impossible your story has seemed up to this point, it doesn't matter.
God specializes in making, say the word all with me, all.
All things new.
That's everything.
It does not matter what your past or even your present is.
He wants to simply enter in and write a new story in your heart.
So here's what we're gonna do.
We're gonna dive into the word and we're gonna see
how he does this.
If you have your Bibles, turn to Isaiah chapter 43, verse 18 and 19.
Isaiah chapter 43, verses 18 and 19.
I apologize, I got new glasses and so I'm having to adjust to them.
Isaiah 43, verses 18 and 19.
says this.
Says, but forget all of that.
It's nothing compared to what I'm going to do.
For I'm about to do something new.
See, I have already begun.
Do you not see it?
I will make a pathway through the wilderness.
I will create rivers in the dry
wasteland.
So it doesn't matter what your current environment is.
It can be a dry river.
It can be a dry wasteland.
It can be a wilderness.
It can be a jungle.
It can be the darkest parts of who you are and where you are.
But God wants to begin to write a new chapter.
So let's take a look over these next three points that we're going to spin together.
And we're going to look at what happens when he makes all things new.
So if you're a note taker, this is point number one.
When he makes all things new, God invites us to let go of the old things, the old, the old stuff.
the old man.
When we get into the baptismal tank, it represents a dying of the old self and a raising up of new life, new person.
That new chapter has begun.
So again, look back at the passage we just looked at Isaiah 43.
Look at just verse 18.
But forget all of that.
It's nothing compared to what I'm going to do.
Forget all of this stuff.
It doesn't matter who you were before.
Don't let the enemy put all of that baggage on you.
Well, you know, you remember, we mentioned just a moment ago, we lay our head down and the enemy wants to start reminding you of all of the stuff that you've ever did wrong, all the bad words, all the bad things, all the bad, whatever, that you've ever done.
And he wants to try to dig in and get your heart messed up, get your mind messed up and get you to believe that there's nothing that you can do that would ever let make God love you again.
You're too bad.
You're too messed up, you're too broken.
He can't fix that, he doesn't wanna fix it.
But he says, forget all of that.
It's nothing compared to what I'm going to do.
See, before God can do something new, He often invites us to let go of what is behind.
Paul uses this language in the New Testament.
And it doesn't mean forgetting where we came from, but it does mean trusting Him to write the new story.
even if the past was painful or uncertain.
You've heard parts of my story.
While, yes, the Lord gave me a very godly grandmother who in my immediate house was Christian, was saved.
We tried very hard to honor the Lord.
But of course, for many years she was not saved.
So there was still the outcome or the outpour, the overfill of that.
But through the rest of my family, I come from a very difficult, very unfortunate family situation on both sides of my family.
Drugs, alcohol, gangs.
I won't go into the rest of it, but that's all part of the story.
But God wrote a new story in my life and He can write a new story in your life.
So, let's get into this, okay?
We know it's all coming.
This morning we are privileged to hear the story, and before you, I want you to give him lots of applause because he was willing to do this, but just so you know, he was voluntold, okay?
Which means I asked him very lovingly, you're gonna do this, right?
Because I needed a guinea pig for the first month.
So we're privileged to hear the story of Chris Collins.
This is a young man in our church who, like many of you,
Knows firsthand what it means to start over.
Yep.
Give him a hand.
And so again, we're going to have him join us on stage.
There's a microphone there for you, Chris.
And you push and hold the button till it turns green, the little light on it turns green.
See, Chris's journey reminds us how challenging it can be to leave the past behind.
But it also shows us what happens when we trust God to write a new chapter.
So here's what we're gonna do.
We're gonna spend just a couple minutes now.
We're gonna ask him a couple of questions, and then I'm gonna continue my message.
We're gonna ask him a couple of questions.
I'm gonna continue my message.
That's how it'll be.
Very simple, very lighthearted.
So nothing terribly involved.
So we're gonna see how God has been at work in this transition.
Amen?
All right, so I'm going to tell you a little bit about Chris's story that I know, and then I'm going to let him talk.
I realize it'd probably easier to let him, but for the sake of time.
So Chris moved here from Liberia in the past year, and he started over.
He started a new life.
He left everything behind, everything familiar, everything that he had known before, and he came here to live with mom, his sister and her family.
They were already here in St. Louis.
They were already established.
They already had everything that they needed going on.
They already had the life moving.
But through a series of kind of some unexpected circumstances, life's changed a bit from the original plan.
Yeah.
But here's the amazing part.
God's been in the middle of all of it.
He's never left him.
He's never forsaken him.
And he's giving him an opportunity to have a fresh start.
And that's just one of the many things that we have the opportunity.
So Chris, I want to say thank you for being willing to be voluntold.
Chris was part of our Guinea pig program last year lead and being a leader.
And so I am extremely proud of Chris for stepping up into a position and being willing to be in an uncomfortable place, especially just as the first time.
Once somebody else has done it, it's not so bad.
It's simple.
So Chris, tell us a little bit about what life was like back in Liberia before you moved to the US.
Thank you.
So life in Liberia was pretty interesting for me.
It was vibrant.
It was just interesting.
So I was living with my sister, like I am right now.
Back in 2016, my mama was afforded the opportunity to come join my sister in this side.
And since that moment, I've been living with my sister, probably been living together.
So yeah, sometimes we had to do stuff on our own, try to figure out stuff for ourselves.
It wasn't easy.
But yeah, somehow got help us.
And we were like moving good.
There was some struggles, but I wouldn't say because God was good.
I can't remember one time I felt so ill. We had family in Africa, but it's not like we are not too close.
So sometimes we have to like, you know, if we got a problem, we have to figure that problem out by ourselves.
So I had malaria like three plus.
The first week, my sister took me to a clinic and I was sticking drugs or medicine and I didn't recover.
I can't remember one evening.
I was like, I want to take a sleep.
So I went to lay down and usually when I'm feeling sick, when I have my labor, I don't like fan.
So I'm like, I need the fan.
So I was laying in the room and the fan was like blowing me.
And I started feeling cold.
I was like, I look at my sister, I'm like, I'm going to be sick again.
And when I said sick, I'm in real estate.
She looked me in the eye and started crying.
She was like, Chris, we are doing everything.
You're just doing what?
Get well.
When I look at how I just, I felt terrible.
We had to like get on a motorbike and drive into a hospital.
But yeah, life in Liberia, it was interesting.
and somehow God made it possible for me and I'm glad to be here today.
Amen.
So how did you see God at work in that transition?
So you were at home and now coming to the US, how did you see God?
Looking back, hindsight is always 20, 20, meaning we don't always necessarily see it in the transition in the moment, but looking backwards, we can kind of maybe see things a little clearer.
How did you see God at work in that transition?
Yeah.
God has been great.
He has been amazing to me.
There were times was like, I look at my sister, I'm like, we got to pray.
We got to see mama because it's been like almost like it was going to seven to like eight years, something like that.
And we were like alone.
We miss our mom.
Every time my mom calls, she'll be like, my children, I'm fasting and praying, hopefully one day you guys are going to see me.
And as God could have it, I was opportune to come on this side.
So I see God doing a lot of great things for me when I was in Liberia.
He's kept me because in Liberia, you don't have too much cars.
You have motorbikes.
I don't know if you guys have seen a motorbike before.
Yeah, because yes, usually it's like once you sit on that thing and it takes you like, it moves you around like to go to school.
There are a lot of accidents.
It's not safe.
Like sometimes you don't have helmet.
Yeah, but God been protecting me and he still protects me.
Amen.
Thanks, Chris.
See, for some of us, we might feel like Chris.
You've been uprooted.
You're navigating a new season now.
I know many of you have a story similar to Chris's as far as a new beginning.
You've moved from somewhere else, some other country, and you've ended up here.
But for some of us, we've been here in the US essentially all of our lives.
And so whether it's, you've made that big move and that big transition, or you're simply navigating a new season,
of life that is maybe filled with uncertainty.
The good news is God doesn't leave us to figure it out alone.
God carried him through, and he's going to carry you through.
He's always working to create something new, even when it feels a bit messy, maybe a bit confusing.
going, why are these things happening?
Why now?
Why this?
Why that?
And there's all of the questions of why or how God, what's gonna happen?
And we don't always necessarily know.
But he simply asks us to let him make it anyway, to start the new chapter, to create the new moment.
And so here's the question that I want to ask you.
What is the one thing that God might be asking you to let go of?
Just like many of you, you had to let go of something major, the comfort of home or a situation at a job.
And you're going, God, I need a new job, but I gotta have a paycheck.
And he's going, listen, I know and I've got it, but I need you to let go of this first.
before we can move into this other.
So what is the one thing that God might be asking you to let go of today?
See, when God makes all things new, He invites us to let go of the old.
Because sometimes the old is what's weighing us down.
Sometimes the old is what's holding us back because, again, I think we've referenced this before.
We're trying to hold on to the old stuff while still moving forward.
And God's going, you got to let go of that.
It's acting as an anchor.
And you've got to let go of it so that you can move where He wants you to be.
See, and also when God makes all things new, He makes us new.
So we let go of old.
He makes us new through Christ.
Look at 2nd Corinthians chapter five and verse 17.
2nd Corinthians chapter five and verse 17 says, this means that anyone who belongs to Christ has become a what?
A new person.
The old life is gone, the new life has begun.
He's saying, let go of the old, let go of that past that you used to be, the cheater, the swindler, the liar, the manipulator, the whatever it may be,
And he's saying, listen, if you will allow me to be part of your life, if you allow me to take control of your life, I'll take hold and I'll make you new.
And I will give you new life that you will never be able to achieve on your own.
When we give our lives to Jesus, He doesn't just improve us.
This isn't a home renovation project.
He doesn't come in and go, well, I'm going to leave a little bit of the old and then I'm going to add on and I'm going to make it new like we might do when we're renowing our house.
He comes in and he says, wipe the slate clean.
Tear it all down to the foundation.
Dig the foundation out.
I'm going to lay a new foundation in your heart.
I'm going to be the foundation of your life and I'm going to build a new life, a new chapter, a new book out of your life if you'll only allow him.
He makes us new.
He gives us a fresh start, not just in the external things like a new country,
a new job, a new home, whatever it may be, but on the inside he gives us a new heart, a new mind, a new spirit that is his.
So we go back to Chris and we're going to ask him some questions about how God has been at work in his life
since coming to the US.
So we talked just a little bit about what life was like before and what the old was.
And so now we're going to ask about what life was like coming to the US.
So how has your relationship with God changed since moving here to the US?
Yeah, it's been great.
Life has changed a lot.
Back home, I was just schooling, going to school.
But when I got here,
I'm still schooling though, but I'm not that person that always sleeps a lot.
If I don't have nothing to do, I just sleep.
I do have friends.
I used to have friends back home, but I'm not that kind of person who's always outside.
Sometimes I just stay home and sleep.
But it's been great.
When I got here, God made everything smooth for me.
My sister told me, my other sister that is here right now, she was like, Grace, there are a lot of things that is working out for you.
That even some of us who got here, it wasn't this move because that's some process that I started and it went smoothly.
And yeah, it was awesome.
So I think I want to ask you a question that I think probably many in the church are going to would be wondering about.
What role has the church played in helping you settle in the life here?
a lot of amazing people.
Amen.
That's a good answer.
Yeah.
I can say the first day I got here, I was sitting back there with my mama.
So there was this brother who used to play the drum.
I was like, mom, I really like playing drums.
She knows I like playing drums.
But I didn't know how to play that.
I didn't have the knowledge to play that drum.
But I was like, I want to learn it because back home,
I want to practice, but I was like, I cannot do this.
I just give up.
The one thing I knew how to play was this right here.
I'm good at playing this one.
So I was like, I want to learn this thing.
And as God could have it, I met Brother Prince.
Oh, God, thank you.
He's mad.
Yeah.
If I tell you how amazing he has been to me, I'm not gonna lie.
He's been amazing.
When I went to him, I was like,
I want to learn that.
He was like, Chris, I got you.
He's been teaching me.
And now, right now, I'm good.
I'm not great, but I'm good.
I'm still learning.
That's right.
Yeah.
I'm still learning.
And the musical team, it is a great family.
We love each other.
Every time we come for practice, we are here for each other.
Evening off practice, we've been amazing.
And I love them.
They have been a really great help to me.
Yeah.
So was there a moment when you realized God was giving you kind of a new start?
Was there maybe when you, so let me add into that story.
So brother Tim was here who played drums before and so happened through a course of events.
He had to leave right after Chris got here.
I mean, what two weeks, three weeks, something like that, maybe a month.
And then our drummer left and God provided Chris.
And so,
I don't know, I would see that.
I mean, if you have a different answer by all means, God's going, hey, look, here's a new place to fit in.
Here's a new start.
And kind of this is where I want you.
Did you see that?
I mean, would you agree with that?
Yeah.
All right.
So, you know, we talked again about Abraham's journey with Pastor Jonathan and how it began with a call from God to leave his home, to venture out into the unknown.
What did he do?
He packed up his family.
He set off, not knowing where he was going, but he ultimately trusted that God has a plan for his life.
We see that in not just Chris's story, but many of your stories as well.
And just like Abraham, we may be called out of our comfort zones.
And although it could be challenging, although he may be calling us to do something that is completely out of our character, out of our skill set, and he's going,
I'm gonna send you to play drums in St. Louis, Missouri.
What?
From Liberia.
And this is where the place that I'm gonna give you.
See, God's promises can guide our steps, and it always leads to something greater.
When we allow God to write a new story in our life, it always leads to something better than we could ever imagine.
The problem is too many of us want to hold the pen and go, okay, God, you can put your hand on my hand and all right, you just kind of, you know, you guide it.
But if I don't like the words, I'm going to change it or I'm going to erase it.
And what he's asking is he's saying, listen, let go of the pen.
Let me write this story.
I know you don't see it in the beginning.
I know you don't see the early pages.
I know you're not seeing what's gonna happen at the end, but I gotta do this to get you here.
I think many of us probably have that story where we can look back on our life, especially those of us that are older.
I've told this story before.
My parents divorced when I was young.
I prayed to God all through my childhood and my early teens.
God, why me?
I serve you, I became a Christian at five, six years old.
I have served God ever since.
God, why would you do this to me?
Why did you allow it to happen?
Why, why, why, why poor me?
And now I can look back.
And there are conversations that I've had with young people when I was youth pastoring and even beyond that are in my situation.
that have had gone through the things that I went through, and I can speak to that, and I can speak Jesus into that situation.
And so when I look back, I go, oh, I understand now, God, why you had to write that part into my early story, because later you needed to use it for your glory.
And what that does is that allows us to move in and through Him with something greater, something that He's doing more, something where He tells the story of our life, and it allows us to embrace Him through everything if we understand.
And then for us, when we look back, we can go, I can move in faith.
When the new challenge comes, because they always come, we can move forward in faith rather than fear, yeah?
When challenges come, when money's not there, or when job situation change, or God says, hey, it's time to move.
And go, well, God, you took me through this.
I know you're going to carry me through this.
So no matter where we are in life, Jesus is the ultimate fresh start.
Whether we've moved to a new country or we're longing for some kind of renewal in our heart, He makes all things new when we ultimately will surrender to Him.
Maybe today, for some of you that are within the sound of my voice, maybe today is the day to surrender that area of your life to Him that you need transformed.
There's something going on in your heart.
There's something going on in your life.
And you're just going, God, I need this.
I need a reset on this.
And today is the day that you need to let Him do that.
Maybe it's a change in attitude.
Maybe it's a change in relationship.
Or maybe it's a change in priorities.
Letting begin to do the new work through Jesus.
So here's the next question.
What area of your life needs a fresh start through Christ?
What area of your life?
Not anybody else, not... Oh, my husband or my wife.
My kids, what area of your life needs a fresh start through Jesus Christ?
Because again, when He makes all things new, He makes us new through Christ.
But He also, when He makes all things new, He makes His new beginning for everybody.
for everybody sitting within the sound of my voice.
Look at, again, we go back to our passage in Isaiah, the verse 19, 43, 19 that says, For I'm about to do something new.
See, I've already begun.
Do you not see it?
I will make a pathway through the wilderness.
I will create rivers in dry wasteland.
God's promise of new beginnings isn't just for us select few.
If you can hear my voice, God's promise is for you.
It's not just for the people who've been at Berea Temple for the last however many years, one year, two years, five years, 10 years, 25 years.
It's not just for Brother Emanuel and Brother Raph.
It's not just for Brother Prince or Sister Sarah or anybody else.
It is for everyone, everyone within the sound of my voice.
Whether you're starting a new chapter because life just has torn you apart.
Life has torn you down, broke you down, and life's circumstances have just gotten over on you, or maybe you're longing for some kind of spiritual renewal in your life.
God is going to be faithful to meet you where you're at.
That should have got an amen.
Because God is faithful always.
I know it's hard sometimes to believe it.
I know it's hard sometimes to receive it.
I know because I've been there.
I know because it's been a challenge in my life at times.
But I know that if we allow God to do the work, He will make a way where there seems to be no way because His renewal is for everybody.
So Chris, last set of questions.
What would you say to someone who feels overwhelmed by starting over?
You're on the back side of it, you're a year down now.
What would you say to somebody who's having to start over?
I would just encourage you.
I know it can be rough starting over, but I would encourage you because God has a plan for everyone and it doesn't matter who you are.
There is one thought that I developed when I was coming up.
I'm still coming up.
Every time I wake up in the morning, I believe God has a purpose for waking me up.
That's right.
Good.
And waking up in the morning reminds me that, oh, God still God was playing for me.
That's why I'm alive because, man, if you are dead,
You cannot do nothing.
Once you are alive, it doesn't matter where you are, God got a plan for you.
So starting over is not of a big deal.
It's okay to start over.
Just remember that God is faithful and believe me, He's gonna carry you through all whatsoever thing you are going through in life.
And yeah, that's, I'm convinced.
Good.
Amen.
Yeah, give him a hand.
So last question, and then I'll let you off the hot seat, if you will.
What's one way you've seen God provide for you through kind of this new season?
You've been here for a year.
What's something that God did?
If you were to say, I have a bit of a testimony, what is the testimony since you've been here?
The fact that I get to meet a lot of amazing people in this church.
That is, yeah, something that I can reflect on.
church family, having, yeah, amen.
And that, yeah.
And that is ultimately what we as a church are trying to build is a community, a family of believers who, when somebody, whether they're an international or they're local, they come to Berea Temple and there is a family here to greet them, to love them, to walk with this journey of life with them.
So Chris, thank you so much.
Give him a hand.
And you can go back to your seat now.
So I asked Chris, I ended with what is your testimony?
What is your story since you've been here?
So this morning I asked that question as a leading question for this next part.
This morning I'm thrilled to introduce something special for our church family.
I call it the book of stories.
See, testimonies are powerful reminders that God is alive and active in our world.
We do Thanksgiving.
Why?
Because sharing the story of what God has done encourages the body.
It encourages the congregation.
It gives us an opportunity to be not only encouraged but to strengthen our faith, to remind us that God can work in someone else's life, that he can work in our life too.
See, stories like Chris's aren't just, they're not just personal victories, they're evidence of God's love and the transforming power that is at work through His people.
You, can I tell you, I'm thrilled and those answers were not coached by me.
All I did was give Chris a copy of the questions.
So his praise of Berea Temple, his praise of a mentor, his praise of the church family was genuine and on his own.
And what a blessing to be that because it's an evidence that God's people are here and God is at work through Berea Temple.
See, when we hear these stories, we're reminded of God's faithfulness to write new chapters in our lives.
So for the last couple of weeks, there has been a prop placed in the church.
Here at the front on the table is a book and it's an empty book.
Some would call it a journal, but it just has empty pages.
And throughout this year, we're gonna be adding elements to our worship service to help make the service and the point and the purpose come alive.
And so here's what we're gonna do over this next
Throughout this sermon series, we're going to be adding to our book of stories week by week, month by month.
If God does something amazing in your life, I want you literally, there's going to be a pin.
And of course, in my silliness, I forgot to put a pin there, but there's going to be a pin laying in the book.
If God does something in your life, if God gives you a testimony, if God provides where there wasn't provision before, if God heals you, if God gives you a word of wisdom, if God speaks, does, moves in your life, I want you to come and I want you to start a new page and write it down.
It doesn't have to be a big long chapter, but we say write a new chapter.
Write it down.
God did this in my life sister so-and-so.
God provided when there wasn't a way brother so-and-so.
And as we go through this year, we're going to create a book of the testimonies of Berea Temple of what God did in 2025.
Now you go, well, what's the point?
Maybe you saw the movie War Room.
And the elderly woman in the movie, she had a wall where she wrote down her prayer requests.
And then when God answered them, she checked them off and she put in, she had a wall of remembrance of all that God had done.
And for 2025, as we're telling our stories, we're learning the stories of the Bible, but we're also learning the stories of the Bereans.
We want to create a record.
God often may ask people to write it down.
what He has done.
And so you don't have to be a fanfare.
You can simply come up anytime if you're here on Wednesday night for prayer meeting, if you're here for Sunday morning, whatever.
You can even call me and say, Hey pastor, can I get into the sanctuary?
I want to write something down.
I don't want to forget it.
Yeah, I'll absolutely come and open it up for you.
And so today we're going to open our book and we're going to write our very first chapter at the end of service.
We're going to write that God brought Chris to Berea Temple and provided when there wasn't a way.
Amen?
See, I want you to think of Chris's life like a tree that's been uprooted and replanted.
At first it might feel like the tree's not going to survive.
Even he, you know, there was some illusion to, you know, just struggles and things like that.
But when roots take hold it begins to thrive in its new soil.
We've watched Chris together this last year come alive.
The smile that he has, it's infectious in a good way.
Not that malaria way that he talked about.
And he's been rooted
And this is where God has planted him.
For however long, whatever season he has, God plants us in new places and he gives us new opportunities and he helps us grow in ways that we would never have imagined.
Three years ago, Chris, I don't think would have imagined that he'd be a drummer in an American church in the middle of St. Louis because there was no answers yet, at least not on that specific front.
So what about you?
What new beginning is God inviting you into today?
Maybe it's a step of faith.
Maybe you're afraid to take, you're afraid to step out.
Maybe it's trusting Him with some new season of your life.
Whatever it is, He's ready to do something new in you and through you.
So here's our last question.
Are you ready to allow him to begin something new in you?
Because he's a gentleman.
He's not going to force his way in.
He doesn't necessarily, Vaughan told us, like I just did to poor Chris.
He simply asks us to let him write a new story.
So as we close today, Chris's story isn't just about moving from one country to another.
It's about moving from uncertainty, the situation that he was in, to purpose, from loneliness, to belonging, from fear, to faith, and that same God who met Chris on his journey to where he is today is ready to meet you in your journey.
The only question is, what is your chapter going to say?
Maybe it starts with surrender.
Maybe it starts with lying down what's behind you and trusting God with what is ahead.
Or maybe it starts with saying, Jesus, I'm ready for you to make me new.
I'm ready to make you Lord of my life and to start that new chapter.
So this morning we've looked at three things that God invites us to let go of the old
that God makes us new through His Son Jesus, and that His new beginnings are for everybody.
See, Chris's chapter is just one chapter that we're gonna add to the book of stories.
But the incredible thing is God's ready to write your chapter too.
No matter where you've been, He sees you.
He knows your struggles.
He knows your doubts.
He knows your hopes.
And I want to give you an illustration.
My grandmother called me.
This is my Christian grandmother.
She called me last Saturday and said, I want you to tell a story in church on Sunday.
That had been last week.
And I said, well, it doesn't really fit, but I'm going to share it the next because it fits with what we're doing.
Because we said God wants to write a chapter.
He wants to do a new thing.
He sees you.
When she was at the grocery store last Saturday, now my grandmother's in her mid to late 80s.
She is a bit getting unfortunately a bit feeble.
So going to the grocery store is a bit of a struggle and she had a rather large order.
And she goes to Walmart in her town and getting even just getting things off the high shelf is a challenge sometimes.
And some of the things that they buy are a little heavy.
And so she has trouble.
Well, a young woman, a woman came and started, said, hey, can I help you get a couple of the things you were needing?
And she said, yes, thank you.
Well, another younger woman came and said, heard what was going on.
And she's like, well, here, give me your, give me your list too.
And we'll go get it.
And my grandmother was able to sit in the middle of the store and I'm getting to a point, I promise.
She was able to stand in the kind of the middle of the grocery area.
And they went and got all the groceries that she needed and put them in the car.
Well, the older woman,
The middle-aged woman stepped away, said, you know, here you go, thank you, have a great day.
The younger woman, who my mom said, my grandma said, was probably in her late 20s, which we're thankful for.
She said, I'm gonna walk you up and just help you get everything out and get it up onto the belt and all of those things.
And my grandma reached for her wallet out of her purse and she was gonna hand her her card and the young lady said, no, ma'am,
She said, the Holy Spirit told me emphatically that I am to pay for your grocery order today.
Okay, well my mom said, my grandma, I call her mom, said it was a couple hundred dollar order.
It was not just a few dollars.
And she said, well honey, you know, or you can, she said, absolutely, God has spoken this and I have no choice but to obey him.
And so she paid for her groceries and she said, she said this,
She said, the God of creation wants you to know that he sees you and that he loves you.
And if he sees my grandmother in the middle of a Walmart store, he sees you in the middle of your circumstance.
He sees you in the middle of the challenge that you're going through and he wants to write a new story for you to come and to share and to be able to put in the record of the stuff, the stories, the chapters that God is writing in the life of Berea Temple so that we can write it down.
But he wants to write a new story in you.
He's just simply asking you to make a new beginning, to take a step of faith, to surrender your past,
and to commit your life to Him.
Whatever it is, you need to just understand He sees you and you don't have to do it alone.
Here's what I want you to know.
You're not here by accident today.
You're not watching online by some circumstance.
God brought you here because He wants to meet you right where you are.
He sees you.
Maybe you're carrying something heavier.
Maybe you've been searching for a fresh start.
Whatever it is, don't leave here without letting God write a new chapter in your story.
In just a few minutes, we're gonna open the altar and anybody is welcome to come and to pray and to seek the Lord and to spend time in His presence.
And if you need somebody to pray with you, of course, I'll be down here and we would love to pray with you.
The altars are always open.
And all we will ask you to do is to take a step of faith
and just step out and see what God can do in your life.
Remember our passage, forget the former things.
Don't dwell on them.
See, I'm doing a new thing.
Now it springs up, but you don't perceive it.
So Father, I pray for each person within the sound of my voice.
Lord, I pray that you would begin writing new chapters, new stories in the lives of the people that are not only here but that are watching online.
Father, remind them that you see them.
Remind them that you are here and that you wanna do great and mighty things in their lives.
If simply they will release the pen, they will release
the author and the finisher of our story to write our story.
We praise you and we thank you with every head bowed and every eye closed.
If there's anybody here that needs to accept Jesus as their Lord and Savior, we want to invite you again.
to come and to spend time at the altar.
If anybody else needs to seek the Lord, needs to see the Lord write a new story, you're invited to come and spend time, whether it's at the altar or in the pew, or you're seeking somebody to pray with you.
The altars are open in the name of Jesus.
Amen.
There's no greater love than this that will lay down his life for his friends.
God gave the best
of love and we need more of that love.
We need more of that love in our lives in our every single day and we pray for that love on every single one of you in this church this morning.
We pray love over your circumstance and your situation that God will touch your hearts and there will be an overflow of love in your lives.
Amen.